If you were looking to make a recommendation of a book,
a movie, or a song,
how might you do it?
You might just recommend the most popular item in that category.
Catcher in the Rye is the most popular book,
so I just recommend that to every reader.
Despacito is a popular song,
so I'd recommend this to every listener.
Titanic is a popular movie,
so let's recommend that as a movie for everyone.
As a small extension,
you might allow individuals to filter for
the most popular items according to specific categories.
Instead of recommending any of the most popular movies,
perhaps, we want to filter to only allow dramatic movies.
Adding a filter for the dramatic movies would select only these from the most popular.
Adding a filter like this turns this recommendation from
simply a ranked-based recommendation system into
what is known as a knowledge-based recommendation system.
A ranked-based recommendation system orders items
according to some criteria like most liked,
most purchases, or most listened to.
Knowledge-based recommendation systems have users provide
context about the item or their preferences to make a recommendation.
Adding a filter so that a user can choose a specific genre or specific year
that a movie was produced is
a very common way to introduce knowledge-based recommendations.